# LHS610-final-project
## Does the provision of mental health insurance coverage by employers improve mental health disorders among employees in the tech-related industry?
### Introduction
Mental health is increasingly recognized as crucial for workplace well-being and productivity. This project aims to research the pressing issue of unaddressed mental health problems in the workplace, particularly in the tech industry, exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. It explores whether employers offering mental health insurance coverage can improve mental health disorders among tech industry employees. This research is motivated by the need to reduce workplace burnout and enhance overall job performance in this vital sector.
### Method
The data for this project was obtained from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/osmihelp/osmh-2021-mental-health-in-tech-survey-results), which provided access to the Open Sourcing Mental Health (OSMH) Mental Health In Tech Survey 2021 dataset.  This dataset contains survey responses from individuals working in the technology-related industry and includes information on basic demographics, mental health history, perceptions of mental health, and workplace attitudes.
The project focused on whether employers providing mental health benefits as part of their healthcare insurance affects employees’ mental health outcomes. The intervention variable was derived from the survey question, “Does your employer provide mental health benefits as part of healthcare coverage?” The outcome variable was the self-reported mental health conditions among employees, obtained from the survey question “Do you *currently* have a mental health disorder? (Yes, No, Possibly, and Don’t know)”. While there are other questions about diagnosis and treatment, they had high missing values. Therefore, I decided to look at the higher level on respondents’ self-reported perceptions of their MHDs as the outcomes.
Furthermore, the hypothesis is that companies providing mental health benefits in their insurance packages will have lower rates of employees with MHDs compared to those without. The expectation was built on the assumption that access to mental health benefits would increase the likelihood of employees seeking services and receiving quality treatment, which in turn will lead to lower rates of MHDs and better outcomes among employees.
### Conclusion
A significant association was demonstrated between mental health coverage and the prevalence of mental health disorders among employees. However, the availability of supportive mental health resources and employees’ work country may modify this relationship. Future policies should consider requiring employers to offer mental health insurance coverage and supportive mental health resources to improve mental health outcomes in the workplace, while also considering cultural and societal factors.
